Machine Learning in Classical and Quantum Physics
================

<!-- WARNING: THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! -->

Welcome to the webpage of the **ML for Physics** Course at the **UIBK**.
Here you will find most resources of the course, from explanatory
notebooks to code snippets that will help us explore the wild world of
ML.

## Course description

This course gives an introduction to machine learning and deep learning:
starting from linear linear models al the way up to state of the art
generative models. The material covers the following topics:

- What is actually machine *learning*?
- Basics of ML: From linear models to logistic regression
- ML applications: from computer vision to Physics
- Basics of deep learning: from neural networks to Transformers
- Unsupervised learning and interpretable ML
- Reinforcement Learning
- Generative modelling: from Boltzmann machines to diffusion models

The course combines theory and practice in the form of jupyter notebooks
with python. We make extensive use of specific librairies such as
`numpy`, `PyTorch` and `fastai`.

## Evaluation

**Homeworks (50%)**

There will be 3 homeworks, each equally contributing to the final mark.
To know more about the homeworks, visit the [Codabench
platform](https://www.codabench.org/competitions/10839). The day after
the submission of each of the homeworks, your group will do a short
presentation (5 mins.) about the methods you developed. The mark will
calculated from your performance above the baseline (60%), the revision
of the code + your presentations (35%) and an extra 5% based on your
ranking’s position (first position gets the full 5% :), and we decrease
linearly).

> Important: to get accepted in the competition, your Codabench username
> must end with “\_UIBK25”.

**Final Project (30%)**

The last weeks of the course you will work in groups on a final project,
the topic of which will be made public at later stages. You will present
your findings in a 20 minutes presentation in the last days of the
course. The topics of the final projects will be decided later, based on
the number of course participants.

**Exam (20%)**

A short written exam, reviewing the main concepts taught in the course.

## Resources

- Some of the content of this course has been adapted from the book
  [Machine Learning for the Quantum
  Sciences](https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.04198) by A. Dawid et al., which
  serves as a gentle introduction to ML but also to its applications in
  quantum sciences.
- The book [Neural Networks and Deep
  Learning](https://neuralnetworksanddeeplearning.com/index.html) by
  Nielsen offers a nice hands-on introduction to the world of ML
- If you are already fluent in Python, the course [Practical Deep
  Learning for Coders](https://course.fast.ai/) is for you. Indeed, we
  will extensively use some of the tools developed therein, as for
  instance the library `fastai`.
- For the Reinforcement Learning part of this course, the book
  [Reinforcement Learning: An
  Introduction](http://incompleteideas.net/book/the-book-2nd.html) is
  the go-to resource

## Previous contributors

Part of the content of this course was originally developed for by Borja
Requena, Alexandre Dauphin, Marcin Płodzień and Paolo Stornati for the
[Master in Quantum Science and Technology
Barcelona](https://quantummasterbarcelona.eu). The original course
content can be found
[here](https://borjarequena.github.io/Machine-Learning-Course/).
